Cleaning, Disinfecting, and Sterilization guide for the Dandy Vision scanner
To minimize the risk of cross-contamination, you must perform these steps after each patient. Proper PPE must be worn for each cleaning, disinfecting and sterilization step.
Cleaning and Disinfecting the Scanner Body 
If visible blood or body fluid is on the scanner, you must clean it before disinfecting by wiping it with a lint-free cloth dampened with warm water (do not soak).
Detach the Scanner Tip before disinfecting the wand.
Disinfect the scanner using CaviWipes.
Do not use disinfectants containing phenol or iodine-based substances, as they may damage the scanner's surface coating.
Thoroughly wipe down all scanner surfaces, ensuring no liquid enters any gaps, air outlets, or pinholes.
Do not rinse the scanner, do not place it in a pressure steam sterilizer, and do not immerse it in water or disinfectant solutions.
Let the scanner air dry thoroughly.
Once dry, use a clean, lint-free cloth dampened with water to remove any remaining disinfectant from the scanner's surface.
Cleaning the Scanner Tip & Transportation of Tip
Do not use an ultrasonic cleaner to clean the tip, and do not soak the tip with alcohol-based disinfectants or in any disinfectants for extended periods.
Rinse the scanner tip under running water for approximately 2 minutes to remove excess debris.
Brush all surfaces with an enzymatic detergent solution, like Metrex EmPower.
Rinse thoroughly under fresh, running water for a full 2 minutes.
Clean the mirror inside the Scanner Tip using a lint-free cloth or lens tissue to remove dust.
Dry the scanner tip's mirror carefully with a lens tissue or lint-free cloth.
Do not place the tip in the biohazard container with other instruments, the tips must be placed in their own separate container to keep the mirrors from getting scratched.
Sterilizing the Scanner Tip
Scanner Tips are shipped non-sterile and must be sterilized before their first use.
Put the Scanner Tip into a sealed steam sterilization pouch and place it in a steam autoclave.
Cycle Option 1: The exposure temperature should be set to 134℃. The exposure time should exceed 3 minutes but must not exceed 6 minutes.
Cycle Option 2: The exposure temperature should be set to 132℃ with a strict exposure time of 4 minutes. Follow the autoclave manufacturer's recommendation for the drying time.
If you limit the exposure times to the parameters above, you can autoclave the Scanner Tip for up to 180 cycles. Replace the scanner tip after 180 sterilization cycles.
Ensure the scanner tip is completely dry before mounting it back onto the scanner.
Computer 
Do not wipe down the computer(s) with disinfectant wipes, this will cause damage to the computers.
Use a plastic barrier such as a chair cover, bracket tray cover or blue wrap to prevent contamination if the computer must be touched during scanning/treatment.
Consider the use of a third person that can “manage” the computer so that the operator/provider does not have to touch the computer during treatment.
